cansav09/sc-rna_seq-reorganization (#28)
AlexsLemonade/training-modules: scRNA-seq/02-tag-based_pre-processing_scRNA-seq.md

# Pre-processing single-cell RNA-seq data 

**CCDL 2019**

#### In this section, we will be running through the basics of pre-processing

> single-cell RNA-seq data.

Reviewer: This needs to go on the line above to render properly.

Reviewer: Because this is a Markdown file, you can use the "one sentence per line" system rather than the 80 character per line limit.

We will be using a peripheral blood mononuclear cells (pbmc's) 10X Genomics [(Zheng et al, 2017)](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28091601) dataset as an example.
For 10X Genomics scRNA-seq data, cells are separated by emulsion/droplets, and 
individual cells are given barcodes.
These data also have
[Unique Molecular Identifiers (UMIs)](http://www.nature.com/doifinder/10.1038/nmeth.2772)
which allow us to better control for PCR amplification errors and biases.

> Note: Raw single-cell RNA-seq data from non-tag-based methods, like the Smart-seq2 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Note:* Raw single-cell RNA-seq data from non-tag-based methods, like the Smart-seq2 
```

dataset we were working with in the previous section, can be processed using 
Salmon, just like was done in the bulk RNA-seq module. 

## Steps for Processing scRNA-seq Data:

### Step 0: Obtaining the data

10X Genomics has plenty of [datasets](https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/datasets)
available to play around with.
For this example, we will use the [1k pbmc](https://support.10xgenomics.com/single-cell-gene-expression/datasets/3.0.0/pbmc_1k_v2).
We will process a fastq file of this as an example.  

> For practical purposes as far as time constraints, we have subset this fastq file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To limit the amount of time this takes to run in the context of this workshop, we have subset this fastq file
```

to the first 3 million reads.

*Note*: depending on the state of the data you are working with, ie. if you have
a `.bcl` file, you will need to use `CellRanger` with their `mkfastq` command to
make fastq files from this.

> However, because most publicly available data is in fastq format and any

Reviewer: However, most public data is available in fastq format and a core facility may return your data to you in this format.
We will start from fastq files.

Before you can quantify with Salmon and
[Alevin](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/335000v2), we need a transcriptome
to be indexed.

> You can use the same trancriptome index as was used for bulk-RNA-seq, however,

Author: I don't have this in the commit I'm working on so I'm not sure what happened here.
